# Portolio_SaidAllaz.Github.io
### Msc Biosystem Engineering thesis:
## The impact of precipitation on the performance of the BO3 reactor on removing micropollutants and organic matter from wastewater treatment plant effluent
# Summary
Micropollutants (MPs) such as pharmaceuticals and pesticides are given attention recently due to their impact on aquatic life. Wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) are considered to be one of the main sources of MPs discharge to the environment. In order to test MPs removal during different weather conditions, a biological reactor (BAC) and an ozone reactor (O3) were combined in (BO3) reactor. Since 99% of ozone reacts with OM, not the targeted MPs, this research is focused on OM removal. A daily filled tank of 50L from Bennekom WWTP effluent was spiked with 24 MPs at a concentration of 1 μg/L and used as a feed for the BO3 reactor. The BO3 was fed with an average flowrate of 1 ± 0.04 and 1.01 ± 0.02 L/h for O3 reactor. Three ozone dosages are applied (0.2, 0.4, 0.6 g O3/g TOC), then the removal of OM and MPs were measured. To investigate the precipitation effect, different samples for dry periods and rainy periods were analyzed and OM characteristics were quantified. The result showed that OM concentration in WWTP effluent is 22% higher for TOC during dry days compared to rainy days. The BAC removal of OM for five chosen dry days is 28% higher for UV254 absorbance in comparison to the most intense five rainiest days. Nevertheless, precipitation showed no effect on OM composition of WWTP effluent, thus it is not related to the lower removal in BAC during rainy periods. Nonetheless, the higher formation of fulvic-like OM in the BAC was accompanied by the increase of the OM removal in BAC, it was likely due to microbial conversion. As for resin fractions, the HI fraction was 47% TOC removed, HOA fraction was 52% TOC removed which is advantageous to decrease the interference for the ozonation of MPs. Additionally, MPs were detected at 35% higher concentrations during dry days in WWTP effluent compared to the intense rainiest days. Moreover, precipitation lower the BAC removal for MPs with 12% higher removal during dry days compared to the intense rainiest days with an average precipitation of (6.5mm). Ozonation resulted in 17% higher MPs removed by 0.6 and 0.4 g O3/g TOC and 16% higher by 0.2 g O3/g TOC during dry days than the intense rainiest days. Potentially, it is caused by the higher reactivity of ozone with MPs during dry days due to the higher MPs concentration in WWTP effluent during dry days. Generally, MPs and OM both resulted in lower removal by BAC and ozone treatment during rainy days compared to dry days.

![Set-up for the BO3 reactor. BR1 is the BAC and O3R is the ozone reactor.] (assets/img/BO3-Reactor.png)
